CCNA Topics covered:

5.0 Security Fundumentals
	
	5.1 Define Security concepts (threats, vulnerabilities, exploits,
	mitigation techniques)
	5.2 Describe security program elements (user awareness, training and
	physical access control)
	5.4 Describe security password policies elements, such as management, 
	complexity, and password alternatives (multifactor authentication,
	certificates, and biometrics)
	5.8 Differentiate authentication, authorization, and accounting concepts

Things we'll cover:

- Key security concepts
- Common attacks
- Passwords/Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)
- Authentication, Authorization, Accounting (AAA)
- Security Program Elements

=== Why Security?

What is the purpose of security in an enterprise?

Foundation of security = CIA Triad:

- C = Confidentiality
	> only authorized users should be able to access data
	> some data is public, some is secret
	> there are degrees in the middle, some is more secret, some is less
- I = Integrity
	> data should not be modified by unauthorized users
	> data should be correct and authentic
- A = Availability
	> The network/systems should be available to authorized users

Attackers threaten the CIA of an enterprise

A vulnerability is any weakness that can damage the CIA of a system
	- a weakness is not a problem on its own, ie windows of a house

An exploit is something that can be used to exploit the vulnerability
	- an explout is not a problem on its own, ie a rock near a house

A threat is the potential of a vulnerability to be exploited
	- a hacker exploiting a vulnerability is a threat, ie a robber that uses a
	rock to break a house's window

A mitigation technique is something that can protect against threats
	- should be implemented everywhere a vulnerabilty can be exploited: client
	devices, servers, switches, routers, firewalls, etc.

NO SYSTEM IS PERFECTLY SECURE! THERE ARE NO GUARANTEES IN SECURITY!

=== Common attacks

- DoS (denial-of-service) attacks
- Spoofing attacks
- Reflection/amplification attacks
- Man-in-the-middle attacks
- Reconnaissance attacks
- Malware
- Social engineering attacks
- Password-related attacks

~ DoS attacks
DoS attacks threaten the A-availabilty of a system.
One common DoS attack is the TCP SYN flood.
	- TCP three-way handshake: SYN | SYN-ACK | ACK
	- The attacker sends countless TCP SYN messages to the target
	- The target sends a SYN-ACK in response to each SYN it gets
	- The attacker never replies with the final ACK of the TCP three-way 
	handshake
	-> Incomplete connections fill up the target's TCP connection table
	-> But the incomplete connections time out? The attacker keeps sending 
	SYN messages
	=> The target can't make TCP connections.

A DoS attack is typically not done by a single user, but by many. In a DDoS
(distibuted DoS) attack, the attacker infects many target computers (or simply
has many at his disposal somehow) with malware and uses them all to initiate a
denial-of-service attack, for example a TCP SYN flood attack. The group of
infected computers is called a botnet.

Again, as a result the target cannot respond to legitimate TCP connection 
requests.

~ Spoofing attacks
To spoof an address is to use a fake source address (IP or MAC).
Numerous attacks involve spoofing, it's not a single kind of attack.
An example is a DHCP exhaustion attack.
An attacker uses spoofed MAC address to flood DHCP Discover messages.
The target's DHCP pool becomes full, resulting in denial-of-service to others.
Not all spoofing attacks are DoS attacks, an example of spoofing attack that
threatens C and I is discussed later.

~ Reflection/Amplification attacks
In a reflection attack, the ATTACKER sends traffic to a REFLECTOR, and spoofs
the source address of its packets using the TARGET's IP address.
The REFLECTOR (ie a DNS server) sends the reply to the TARGET's IP address.
If the amount of traffic sent to the target is large enough, this can result in
denial-of-service.
A reflection attack becomes an amplification attack when the amount of traffic
sent by the ATTACKER is small, but it triggers a large amount of traffic to be
sent from the REFLECTOR to the TARGET.
For example, there are DNS and NTP vulnerabilities that can be exploited for
amplification attacks.



